feat: Device count via deviceauth-enterprise cli. (#1948)
mendersoftware/mender-docs: 07.Server-installation/07.Device-license-count/docs.md

---
title: Device license count
taxonomy:
    category: docs
    label: tutorial
---

> 

Reviewer: Please add a disclaimer:

```
!!!!! Device License Count is only available in Mender Enterprise.
!!!!! Ignore this section if you are running Mender Open Source.
```

Author: added.

> The Device Authentication service gathers data about devices. It also provides a command
> line operation to count the licensing data: `license-count`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Device Authentication service gathers data about devices. It also provides a command
line command to count the number of accepted devices and store it as licensing data: `license-count`. 
```

Author: sure.
note: "command line command" is bad style.

Reviewer: @merlin-northern you are right, "command line command" sounds strange. Feel free to reword it.

Author: roger.
I moved to: "It also provides a command to count the ..."

```shell
# deviceauth-enterprise license-count --help
NAME:
   deviceauth-enterprise license-count - Count licenses and store the results

USAGE:
   deviceauth-enterprise license-count [arguments...]

DESCRIPTION:
   Counts the devices licenses and stores the result for later processing.
```

> Its purpose is to ensure your installation is properly licensed, and verify the devices counts.
> The command is usually run by the cronjob
> in the [kubernetes cluster](../04.Production-installation-with-kubernetes/06.Enabling-device-license-count/docs.md),
> or [docker composition](../03.Installation-with-docker-compose/04.Enabling-device-license-count/docs.md).
> It saves the devices count on daily basis and does not influence the operations of the server in any way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its purpose is to ensure your installation is appropriately licensed and verify device counts.
A cronjob usually runs the command
in the [kubernetes cluster](../04.Production-installation-with-kubernetes/06.Enabling-device-license-count/docs.md),
or [docker composition](../03.Installation-with-docker-compose/04.Enabling-device-license-count/docs.md).
It saves the device count daily for future inspection and otherwise does not influence the operations of the Mender Server in any way.

You can download the device count and licenses report from the Mender UI in the Organization view by clicking on the link "Download license report".
```

Author: applied.
